welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting it's september the 7th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked in the past week and
plan to work on and then discuss open
issues um
from the journalist if there is any
and yeah so i started myself
so um last week i found some time to
work
on rust multihash and what i currently
do
is so the plan is to merge tiny
multihedge into rust multihash basically
merging it upstream
and in order to do this i fix any
outstanding
things that um so that basically the
tiny multihash has feature parity with
rust multihash
so that the merge is easy and while i'm
doing this i'm also improving the tests
and find bugs
obviously so um yeah so i'm fixing bugs
and yeah and but the cool news is that
today or yesterday someone posted that
one missing feature is adding blake
three support
and someone from the community
is on the way of contributing this so
that's pretty cool that
i don't have to do all the work but
there is help from others
so that's really cool and i've also
looked into rust
cid which of course then needs to use
the new
um rusts multihash once merged
and i feared that it's a lot of changes
but actually the changes are pretty
small
so that's also pretty cool so once
the rust mud hash things has merged
upgrading rust cds
just a single pr and pretty
straightforward and
yeah and hopefully it will happen this
week but it might slip into the next
week
the actual merch um
yeah that's all i have and next
on my list is danielle
so i finished getting up to speed on the
docks and specs
i read most of them at least twice that
doesn't mean i'm fully up to speed yet
but at least
i feel confident enough to actually
start whacking at the code
and i think i should be able to follow
most of what
all of you say i also did ask quite a
lot of questions on slack so thanks for
helping with those
i also seem to have found a way to make
it have actions hang on mac
um so i was talking to a couple of
developers there and it seems like the
process on ci just
drops so they're gonna look into that we
might have to disable ci on mac
until that's looked into and i'm
essentially gonna start
helping out with the to-do's that he's
got on hackendy
which are essentially little bits of tag
that things that could be done a little
bit better and so on
until i get to bigger tasks but that's
it
thanks next is eric
uh so i've been doing a lot more of
writing stuff up which is fun the amount
of write-up debt is i think also kind of
substantial so there's a couple of
new issues that are brain-dumping some
stuff around
error-type thoughts there's a lot of
errors in the library that need
improvement and i'm
thrilled that daniel's around can help
us out with some of those um
i did a little more work on cogen and
schema stuff
so the test coverage around code gen
stuff is continuing to expand using the
new harness structures that i started
working with last week
added a bunch more tests around the
union features especially
found several bugs there so that was
nice
those are now fixed for a while
iterators on unions would hang
test coverage it's important
so with that fixed i was able to go on
and work a little bit more on the demo
for the schema schema and
so that that demo has now expanded quite
a bit it's now using
the kind of unions um in places where it
should be
those didn't exist the last time i was
working on this demo so
now i got to introduce them they work
and the whole thing is rigged up to
a demonstration of parsing the schema
schema
json which is kind of cool
as was the dream of this whole system of
designs this actually works in pretty
much a one-liner
you take the node prototype from one of
the code gen types
and you hand that along with the string
into
um json on marshall and it goes
so there was no code
needed to be written for this to work at
the end
that has also produced some learning
experiences um
i ended up massaging the schema schema
json a little bit in a couple of ways
and i'll talk about that more later um
and i've also realized with some
intensity that the error handling
experience throughout this whole thing
um again needs a lot of work it was a
little bit tricky to figure out
um when i when i had a mismatch between
the schema as i had typed it in
programmatically and this document that
i was parsing and getting to match to it
in a lot of cases it would give me
errors based on the type system which
were helpful
but it wouldn't tell me where in the
document exactly those were
so if that type appeared in multiple
different places then the error messages
were
not as helpful as one might want so
there's
stuff to do there
um the schema schema changes
i didn't make good enough notes on this
in the
document that's right in front of me
so there's a pr open for that which
introduces a couple of potential changes
and i'm not sure if they're all good
changes so that's more of a discussion
stir i marked that pr
as a draft because i do not assume that
i want to merge that without
discussion if indeed at all it'll
probably be more like it generates some
other pr's that are more broken down
if anything some of those are some small
renames of the internal types
to make it read better
so those are very interesting some of it
is proposing
changing one of the core unions in the
schema schema to
be a key to representation where it is
currently in line
and so that one causes the structure of
the document to change
kind of drastically at least until you
turn off the white space stiff
and then it's not so drastic anymore
that's that's a change that i made
primarily because it meant
i can do cogen matching that now because
cogen for
unions with inline representation is not
yet implemented
but there's a lot of reasons that i
think
we might be inclined to recommend key
unions as one of the most preferred
choices
in new designs and so um i want to talk
a little bit more about that and like
consider whether we want to dog food it
in the schema schema
and if not like why
and be ready to like really defend our
reasoning on that
so and then there's a couple of other
changes in there that i cannot remember
live from me right now oh uh unit types
i haven't quite finished a new issue to
write up
the how and why i'm aware and the what
around units um
but i think that is something that we
should look at adding to the scheme
system
in the near future and unit type is
basically
a type that has a cardinality of one
it doesn't come up often but when it
does you
really want it and the workarounds are
really sketchy so
um it's come up at least two times in
stuff that i've been working on so far
and in both cases it threw me for a loop
to not have it so i think we should work
on it
what else oh um we had some
conversations in recently past weeks
about
identity multi-hash and
i want to forward a little bit of news
from ian from the pier boss project
that we were chatting this week and he
was
working on something where he had
previously wanted to use identity
multihash
and he implemented the code to work
without it
and it was not as big of a problem as he
was previously afraid of so i think this
is probably good news
um i'm going to try to beg him to write
up an experience report about that
but um
it seemed to be it worked anyway uh
the figuring out what to do about it
took him like roughly a day
and he said the number of lines of code
that our user facing after that were
quite minimal so
um so hopefully we can get him to talk
about how that worked and
it should be pleasing to be one of the
biggest uses of identity multi-edges too
so
yes so this is
it's good context um
yep and um i'm also going to try to talk
to you ian a bit more about
unicafe's v2 futures in the next week
because he started to work on some other
experimental file system designs
and um i don't expect that our work will
converge on that because
he's got use cases in mind that involve
especially things like
capability bits and permission systems
that are just
they're going to be full of the
application level logic of purebounce
and that's
fine but it'll be nice to talk a little
bit more and try to get our ships
sailing in like
roughly the same direction so
that's it for me
thanks next is the rod
okay where's my tab okay
uh so
okay so the story of my week is
um i'm slowly navigating my way to
some of this test fixture stuff that has
been on my
list for so long and came back up again
with the file coins
work um and
like it's the reason i touched car files
in the first place
um way back
um so long ago um anyway i
i uh yak shaved my way to a new deck pb
implementation in javascript um
because my test fixtures for car files
include some dag pp stuff and he's
and with the migration to the new
multi-format stack
um that is the most awkward piece of it
all and it just makes a mess of the
tests
and michael hadn't done it and and i
don't i didn't see what was going
what what the path was to getting that
done so i just did it um
so there's a new dag pb implementation
for the new multi-formats
stack and in that issue number one in
that new repo
i started a discussion about uh
how we interact with the new block
abstraction and these
data shapes that come in that aren't the
final form
and in um in this particular instance
that well the reason that's an issue is
because
uh in the block abstraction michael's
built in this
uh reader functionality reader
abstraction
that takes over all of the path
resolution stuff that was built into all
of the old codecs what is built into
them so
in any of the other js codecs the path
resolution is deferred down to the codec
so whenever you want to do a resolve it
calls this
resolve function on that codec and that
does the resolution for you
which was always a lot of duplication
that you can find the same code again
and again across these codecs
because most of them do pretty much the
same thing there's some variation but
it's very similar so michael pulled that
up into the block interface so
if you do path resolution you've got
this block then it will um
most do do it all actually locally and
the way
that works is uh because in javascript
we're dealing with
just plain objects so when we do a
decode
we instantiate an object that is the
shape of the data
in the data model and then when we do it
and
and then so we can path through that
object so any path tells us
how to get through that object um we can
do that in memory and then
when we serialize we take an object of
the appropriate shape and then
turn it into the bytes for that format
and that's that's fine with dag jason
and dax cbo because it's just a matter
of
um how do you serialize these things
into those
codecs and they're flexible and so you
can take any any
uh most shapes of data in memory and
turn them into daxy or datejson great
but we have these other codecs that are
not flexible
and dake pp is one of them pretty much
everything but dike seabourn dak jason
is
and they have very particular opinions
about the shape of
data in the data model um
so when you deserialize when you decode
a block that is
dag pb you get back this object that has
a links property and a data property and
the links property has is an array that
has
um objects with each of which has three
properties
um what is it the hash
t size and name and there's
there's a few rules around these things
and what they what
what defaults are what happens if they
don't exist
um even the rules around what happens if
the data property is
empty um that gets transformed to a zero
byte array
um so
that's fine so resolving paths there's
some questions about
dag pb because there's this whole name
linked
named lynx thing which is if you look at
the dag pp spec you'll see
but we have this thing where in
javascript you can provide
you're when you're instantiating a new
dagpb block
you can provide an object that is that
has some variation in
the size and it doesn't have to be
perfect and the codec will get it right
for you before serializing
um so a couple of examples of that are
um you might
um well the easy one is that the data
property
could be null you could just provide no
data at all and that's and that's okay
and then it will serialize as a zero
length
byte array and then when you resu
when you deserialize it'll come out as a
zero length byte array so
what you pass in might have a null but
when it does a round trip it'll come out
as a
array of zero and the other example
is well there's some flexibility in the
new stuff i wrote this is why this came
up because i was writing flexibility in
because it was just
nicer so you could you could just pass
in a biter and say serialize this byte
array for me
and it would take that byte array and
put it into a data property and then
make
no links and it would give you a nicely
formed pp object
as if you were serializing just a byte
array but it would pack it nicely
same thing with the the links objects
you could just give a cid and it would
turn that into the right
object type and a bunch of things where
you can just make the
make the format nicer if you're building
it from scratch because you know there
is some holdovers from history that make
that format not so pleasant
so you can pass in all these different
objects of different shapes
and it will it will do a round trip for
you and come and they'll come out
different but then when we have this
blocking block abstraction when you
instantiate a new block from the data
model
and it's got a the shape that it doesn't
quite match what would
what would occur in a round trip um
the this reader thing the path
resolution
will will resolve according to the data
you've passed in not according to how it
will be
if it does a round trip so you get
really weird side effects of that
and if if you were building a system
where you were creating the blocks in
memory
and not not doing a round trip you were
not deserializing
you were creating them and using them
while you created them say you were
you had a um a unix fs system that was
um it was was pulled is sucking in
a file system and you also wanted to
browse it in in your file browser at the
same time
while you were processing it so before
even serialization
you might throw these block objects into
that
and if you were doing any pathing
then the paths would be wrong because
the data shapes are not their final form
so there's this question now about what
do we do about this
block abstraction uh one option is to
force a round trip
which seems really wasteful if you were
never going to encode in the
like maybe you have a case where you
don't actually encode you're just using
them as an abstraction
another one a proposal is to have to
have a prepare method of some kind for
each codec where the codecs
have a way to register that they need to
do some data preparation
another another example of this is um in
javascript we can have objects
that have extraneous properties on them
and they just get ignored and so if you
were to do a round trip
and you had a property foo
object that you passed in you wouldn't
error on that because it's not looking
for extraneous properties
but it would disappear on a round trip
and then but but if you didn't do a
round trip your path foo
would resolve which is just silly
so um yeah so
now there's a discussion in there in
issue number one about how this
this round tripping and preparing data
shapes
should work and um yeah it's not
resolved but
needs some experimentation and might
make the abstraction a little bit
less clean anyway long story but
it's issue number one there um
the other thing that was a lot of
discussion was
uh back to the car stuff was
um the data store interface that
i've been using to write these um
abstractions over block storages in
javascript
it comes out of file coin and it's
even initially it was like this doesn't
quite fit um
it's got a lot of legacy ideas in it
that just don't apply to what we want to
do
and i just got to the point where it's
just it's just too frustratingly wrong
for a plain block javascript
ipld block storage system
so there's a discussion in the car
discussion in the car repo
about a new storage
um abstraction there an api for that
and ghazal has been very helpful as
usual in um
coming up with ideas about what that
abstraction should look like
uh how the api should feel so i'm in the
middle of implementing
that and the idea is that should be
transferable to these other storage
things we have so
like michael's been doing um storing
ipld in git lfs um
that that same abstraction should be
mirrored there so you can just pass it
around
and be agnostic to where you're storing
them
so that's a fruitful discussion and
that's what i'm in the middle of doing
and that's my main
interesting things this week
okay um any other
updates from anyone
[Music]
um i have one comment about the issue
one on tag pb
because like as you explained it i was
wondering
um because i was also like i'm also
posted comments on the discussion but as
you explained it
um could it perhaps make sense that
there
is that the um
[Music]
from the codec the encode method
expects always the correct shape
like the final shape it should have and
that we then have this preparation
method
also on the codec and so because like
people
are expected to interact through the
blog api anyway so
from the blog api perspective you guys d
pass in whatever you like then it calls
this preparation method but on the codec
level itself that basically
so you don't push it down into the
encode method basically but like
kind of like define that encode methods
always expect the
the correct shape of the data
and i don't know if this is too strict
but this might make things like
cleaner in a way because i also felt
like it's kind of
yeah strange where to put things but i
think if you do it like
this it might yeah
might things make things easier so
basically that the
prepared functions really only transform
and then
yeah it yes that's that was
that's that's where we've landed in that
discussion and where
i said i would go and do experiments in
that direction i i do have a concern
about it which is that
um you multi if you so this we've got
two layers here one is multi formats and
one is block
and interacting via block is that all
makes sense because you're just
putting in objects and then calling in
code and decode methods on block
and it does all the mechanics underneath
and so you can hide all
those details there and it would work
quite nicely but you can also interact
with this through the multi-formats
thing where it's it's it's a lot more
manual where you're saying
um give me the encode method for
this codec and give me the decode method
for this codec and then you're doing it
all yourself which is what block does
takes away the pain of that
but you can still do it that way so you
you can still interact with these codecs
purely through encoder decode
if you just use multi-format with
multi-formats and then you would
be in a situation where codecs need to
decide
uh how how much validation they want to
do in the encode method
uh and then that ends up itself being
wasteful and i'm thinking in particular
here the bitcoin format where
you have very complex shapes and they're
very specific it has to have this
property this property and this probably
has to be this type
and then it shouldn't have any other
properties and so if i've got a
prepare i i can easily take input and
put it in the right shape and that would
mean taking things like um
hashes and turning them into cids and
removing properties that
shouldn't be there i can do that in a
prepare method but then when i get to an
encode method
i'm probably going to have to do it
again anyway because i
i can't it's it's it's a little bit too
much to say
i can assume that it's in the right
right shape
um because then that's going to lead to
a lot of potential errors where
um hey i was assuming that i could read
this property here because
you should have prepared this data
beforehand um
and there's something uh
there's something a bit too trusting
about an api in javascript that doesn't
check the data going through it and it
just makes assumptions
hey you should have already prepared
this thing um
oh that makes it awkward yeah
do busy saying that if we so you would
need to have the
the error handling in the encode
as well and then you basically have for
example the error ending like in both
in the preparer as well as the encode
because like
having it not in the encode it's just
straight yeah
just breaks things randomly and people
won't know
why it breaks but but i did have a
thought about how this
this can be ameliorated which is that um
you can do this prepare thing um
yeah no it doesn't really solve it but
but you with the
calling prepare for using the pathing
thing
you can defer calling prepare on any
input data
unl until the user does call
that pathing thing or they ask for the
decoded form back
before you've done a round trip so you
can limit the cases where you do this
double prepare
um to just those cases where they want
to re
they want to make the block with the the
origin with the um with their input data
and then use the block before even
encoding it
um so in that case you could you could
call prepare but in any other case you
could defer that
that cost elsewhere so
so you could make an api where you say
okay the codec
should export a prepare function
and we also trust that the encode
function will also do some of that as
well so that's another option where you
have
prepare which does just clean up and in
code which does
clean up and encoding instead of
splitting the two
and making them separate api pieces
you could let the codec say okay i'm
only going to call the prepare
method in these very limited state
circumstances
and i trust you will do your own prepare
as well when i just call in code
so it limits the double processing but
anyway
these are all icky details that
uh need to be experimented with but
there's going to be some double
processing here
somewhere
okay um
yeah so is there anything else um uh
well i was just going to say for what
it's worth i think the idea of
having those two steps be separate seems
reasonable and having to prepare
i would think that that should even be
optional i
i like the idea of having the encode
method if it finds
unencodable data in the thing return an
error at that point don't try to massage
it anymore
because i would think it would be
possible to
make the repair call and all of the
massaging that
it does be entirely optional for newly
written stuff like maybe we want this
for things that are having
some compatibility story that feels more
like the
older generation of interfaces but if
you're writing new code you could also
just write new code to
not use any of those structures or
assume that those transformations are
going to exist right
so it shouldn't be strictly necessary to
ever have repair be called if you know
you're writing code in this new
generation
yes but then
you're actually adding on even more um
checking because okay an example with
dagpb
is if i let's say i my encode method
only deals with exact form
objects it as if they did a round trip
and i just assume that they're all
there and if they're not then that
throws well what about this null
data array thing where dag pb
spec specifies that it has to be it
can't be an empty property it has to be
a zero length byte array
um or or it has to have bytes in it um
and so then i have my code then has to
say uh it has the check that you've
given
it can't just be this loose check if you
know if it's not there then i'll replace
it
it has to be a bite array it has to have
a length now it
no it doesn't have to have a length
obviously it has to be a binary
um and it can't be anything else so i
need to have a type check for that
and then i'd have to then for the
another thing i have to do on
everything and every sub property is
check for the keys of every map because
everything's an object everything's a
map in javascript
so i have to check the keys that there's
no extraneous keys okay you've given me
something that's got links data and
food why do you have to why can't you
just leave this until
the codec runs on it and the codec is
checking all these things and then the
codec says no
yeah but that's what i'm talking about
in an encode method um
normal so in what i would do in dagpb
if you gave me an object that had links
data and foo
i would never touch foo like in in the
old codec and the new there's no reason
to even touch foo
to acknowledge that it exists or even
check for it
all i care about you give me an object
i'm pulling out data and links
and i'm serializing those but you've
given me something that's got it foo as
well
that's invalid and that shouldn't that
wouldn't make it through a round trip so
it shouldn't be there
um and the preparedness yeah i think
that should win
right so that means that then i have to
do a recursive
keys checked on every object that comes
in
and then and that's additional
processing that we've until we've
now we've avoided um so
that seems like a almost baseline
like you're doing a marshall yeah it
seems like it to you i i know why it
seems like it to you but
this is this is not how we operate in
this untyped world where
um it because it gives you a lot of
flexibility in untyped
land where you can reuse the same thing
for different purposes
and um you can make something
look like it's two things at once um
there's you know this is polymorphism
that
it affords us that's not it's often not
a good practice but it can be useful
um in this case it's not ideal
yes but it's the kind of processing that
we
have been able to avoid um for the most
part
but in this in this new case with this
new abstraction because we are operating
on these objects they need to be pure so
we have to go through this purity cycle
for a prepare method yes it makes sense
what i would do is i'd probably
create it no and the other problem is
you can't
you have to create a new object uh
that's the trick here so you can't just
clean up an old object somebody gives
you something
you have to create something new and
give it back you can't just take the old
thing and clean it up for them because
then that's breaking
an api contract that we generally stick
to in javascript which is
don't mess with the user's input because
they might be using it for something
else
make something new and return that and
that gives you the opportunity to clean
up properties so what what you do then
is you take an object you've got links
data foo
you make a new one and all you care
about is pulling out links and data
and then you give them that and there's
not even any reason there to check for
properties of the original one
so you don't even need to do any type
checking or keys checking
because all you've done is pulled out
links and foo and there's no error
involved there's no checking involved
there's no
yeah because you know somebody could
potentially give you something that's
got a lot of objects on a lot of
properties on them
and these things could get expensive and
mostly you can avoid that
anyway this this is this becomes really
messy
and um and it's yeah
but but it's a question that won't go
away with these non-flexible formats
that have opinions about data shapes
yeah all right so
then last call
cool then we had a quick meeting and
yeah we see us again next week so um
goodbye everyone
eric before we do close eric did you
want to talk about the schema schema
stuff at all or
we'll do further
if we have to i guess we don't have to
it's 7 30 a.m i'm not that keen for it
but
uh so should this be on the stream or
not because so i stopped the live stream
or
like it's not private it's an open
yeah then let's keep recording just yeah
okay um i have to go dig out the
tabs um so i did just file an issue
talking about the unit kind thing
as it's done separate issue that's
number 292 and the specs repo now
so that was something that just came up
in the process of examining other schema
schema changes and getting my parser to
work but something that's been kind of
on on one of my back burner wishlists
for a while
so now it's bubbled up to the top
oh where is this list so
so i've got this draft pr out for
potential schema schema changes and it's
only implemented on the json form so far
i have not ported it to the dsl
these are changes that are basically
what came up
as i was going over it afresh while
building
the demo of parsing this with
co-generated stuff
and one of the things that came up is
the two implementations of unions that
are implemented so far in cogen
are the keyed and the kinded
so i changed everything that wasn't kind
of to be keyed
previously these were written as uh the
inline representation of unions
so all the things that are in the
type definite union are like
like type bool or type struct and all
these things and all of those are
struct types so they're all represented
as maps and so you could
find you serialize them so you'd have
this like
the magic key was called kind and then
it would be string or struct or whatever
would be the value
and i switched these all to key unions
which means like the body of the rest of
that
got indented by one and then the word
string came out in front
as a map key and the kind keyword just
disappeared because
it's uh encoded as a map with a single
key now and the key is the hint
so i did this for the convenience of
development frankly but
it's also something that i wanted to
toss out and
see how it feels if we use it as a dog
fooding example because
the keyed union representation is the
most parser friendly one
and i'm planning to post a bigger
write-up about this
sometime soon as well because i think
this is something we've talked about
colloquially a couple of times but we
need like
a linkable piece of reference for it so
the reason that
a ketune is often preferable is
the key always comes before the value
which is kind of convenient
the other representation strategies for
unions we've described all of these
because they're things that we
see in existing protocols and we want to
be able to describe but
using these other strategies like inline
it is
perfectly valid for the kind hint
or the membership hint to come below a
bunch of the data
if you've got this thing serialized as a
map and the map order is like yeah it's
no order
then this can come across in an
unfortunate order
and this can be unpleasant to parse
because it means you might have to parse
a bunch of data
before you get to the membership kind
hint
and so you have all this data and you
either have to like
kind of parse it but not actually lift
the tokens out because you don't care
about them yet because you don't know
what they're for
and then get your hint and then
backtrack on the raw data and parse it
again
and now you have the tokens or you could
try to buffer the tokens or like you can
do
buffering in whichever way you want
basically but if this information comes
in an unpleasant order then you are
stuck buffering something and basically
going over a bunch of stuff
twice in a row because the first time
you see it you don't know what it is yet
and if these are really big structures
like if this is the
the first thing in a megabyte size block
let's say is a union and it turns out to
be
the 999 kilobytes of
data and then the last two words
of the block are your union discriminant
hint
your parser will be very sad right it
will allocate
a ton of memory to deal with this
so heat unions kind of leapfrog over
that because in every codec we've ever
seen
the key comes before the value then this
is just guaranteed to be solved
um so i dog food at changing the scheme
of schema
to use this format it is arguably less
pretty
i don't know this is something that we
should discuss
um one of the big changes is there's a
unit type in play
previously there was a map that had a
bunch of keys and the keys
for all of the meaning and the values
are all null
this is something that was described
kind of haphazardly in the existing
schema schema
this is one of those things that's like
a bit old this is from like an
early draft of things right and it just
survived until now
and i think it's actually technically
wrong as it stands it does not compile
so what i want to do is propose we need
unit kinds we need to be able to declare
types that have
one valid member and so if we do that
then we can say the unit kind
has a representation of null and then
the schema's chemo component will become
correctly partial and specifiable
this draft pr that i put up does
something slightly different
because the unit kind isn't introduced
yet
i made a placeholder which is basically
type unit struct
nothing and that has the correct
semantics
but it means all of these things in the
schema schema are now serialized as an
empty map
so this works and it passed all the type
checking and consistency stuff in my
demo using the cogent types but like
maybe this is not what we want
so introducing a real unit kind would
let us do something better here
um and yeah that that unit thing applied
to the
ums basically so i think those are
the biggest changes the naming ones
aren't really interesting
so i guess the ask is just i don't know
take a look at that
consult your heart tell me how you feel
um sorry i'm looking at the issue for
unit type
can you tell me as succinctly as you can
why
defining a concrete null wouldn't solve
this problem
um it would but like it's i don't know
it's the same thing
the important part is cardinality equals
one i don't really care what we call it
i think we should call it unit because
that literature is
pretty consistent in the history of
other programming language theory
so are you suggesting we do away with
null even though we have this in our
data model
weirdly yes which really bugs me because
right now our docs for kinds and schemas
do say that it's a superset of the
representation kinds and it would be
kind of annoying to complicate that
um
maybe we can phrase that carefully as
saying
unit at the schema kind level is the
same as
null at the representation kind level
and that's it does seem like an added
complication
when we have a cardinality one thing or
anything sorry
welcome does the unit time
buy us anything compared to or now
like like practically like for coaching
or like
yeah does it any like is it so is it
really only a matter of like it would be
like a
better description of what it does or is
it really like it has benefits on
yeah well so the the benefit would be
that it works at all
like the schema schema as it's written
is actually wrong on this front
like it it just doesn't it doesn't
compile like right now there is
this map as part of the definition of
e-news in the scheme of schema and it
has
the string values and those are what
matter and then
all of the values
in that map are null and so like that's
valid json
sure great but the schema schema
the types that it describes describe
this part as being a map
that has keys that are string and values
that are capital n
null as if capital n null is a type that
is somewhere else in the schema schema
and it's not this is just an incomplete
reference that does not compile
so the introduction of a unit kind would
let us
define such a type and finish this
so that it compiles that that's so with
the definition of a null type
you could just define the null type
yeah like we could call unit null
names right as long as it hits
cardinality one i don't really care
i think i think we still might be
missing the subtleties that
make this thing compelling over just
making null
something that you can refer to
because we need it anyway
it is a thin wrap around saying there
should be types
whose that we can say they're only
inhabitants isn't all
i kind of think being able to introduce
more than one representation strategy is
also sane
because it is not never
that i see some protocol and some json
api someone made somewhere on the
internet and
it has maps where the values can
literally only be true and any other
value would be wrong
people do this so i would kind of like
to be able to represent that by saying
oh yeah that's a
that's some sort of a type that is the
unit kind and its representation is true
i think that would be handy
could also very much argue that's not
the most important thing in the world
but
this is what this is what really covers
all those cases where people want a
terminator that's concrete
and and consistent but doesn't provide
any other information than being a
terminator
which which null does give you but
yes there are other uses weird yeah
like empty struck empty empty map or
true or one or zero
um yep so like the first time i was
drafting
one of not the first time roughly the
39th draft
of the selector schema
i wanted to have the matcher type b
[Music]
just it should always be serialized as
true because that was the terminator in
that recursion
system and i thought having it show up
serially as true
looked nice and that was not possible to
express in the schema language at the
time
so if you're saying you have like
different
representations would make sense would
it then make sense to have a
unit type with default representation
null and you can define your other
representation
perhaps i think yeah probably yes
so it would be kind of like for the like
for people that don't care it will be
now yes
but do care can do whatever they
like yep
and every once in a while you can see
this has not come up often but
it is possible that you could imagine
somebody writing a union
where more than one of the member types
is actually
of unit kind
so that's just fun
oh i think that's one of those things
that sounds weirder than it is once you
wrap your head around it
um on the the kid versus inline for
that you did in the ski mask email um
i i i don't know i'm torn on it because
there is something convenient about
inline where
if when you're dealing with it at the
memory level
at the data model level it is easier to
deal with
than that's the javascript thing i am
afraid yeah i know i know
i bet you're dealing with a go thing and
this unit thing is a go thing so we're
we're doing some
we're doing some compromising here um
but uh yeah there are lots of reasons
why inline is just a mess
and we and recommend even recommending
them is
like we have inline mainly because
that's how
a lot of data in the wild exists it's
just
it seems to be a natural format for a
lot of people
keed is much cleaner and um
it's just cleaner uh but um
[Music]
yeah and it actually yeah and it's more
it is i think
key unique and uh even kinded
uh well kind maybe not kind of the key
is certainly much more intuitive
uh than inline um when you are
looking at data um inline requires you
to make a lot
a number of cognitive jumps to process
it
and whereas keyed is like there's one
key
and it's this key that's all
um whereas inline is okay there's these
properties and
in this state these properties exist but
in this other state there's and there's
this one
indicator that you know so it's they are
much more pleasant to
look at and to understand um
they're just a little bit more
inefficient and this is this goes back
to the problem with the
and far coin hampt um
in in go uh these kid unions are
make they make so much sense
um but they can lead you to the
perverse situations where you're doing
something you don't need to
because because because you're doing it
for
sort of these uh aesthetic they're not
really aesthetic but it's sort of
comfort reasons it just seems right
um and so the key union in the file coin
hand is complete waste
um but it's done because it just feels
right in in the data model
well i think that one and that one might
have a weird evolutionary story because
i think that kind of unions either
didn't exist at the time that
the filecoin folks wrote that or
possibly just
message propagation rate they didn't
know that it existed at the time
but they weren't they weren't building
that according to our union
ideas they kind of were
we had talked about it i don't know
weird parallel evolution
anyway um okay so this unit thing i
think
i think you're stretching it but
um because you're gonna add like i'm
just thinking through like
all the changes you need to make to
introduce this thing and it's a lot
like even down to the documentation yeah
the unit is going to be really annoying
um
yeah i think we do we do need it though
like the
like the scheme of schema just doesn't
compile unless we introduce this
or we introduce the hack no
yeah that doesn't actually compile right
now that's that's indescribable
that's fixable like that's the thing we
could fix that and and it would be in
line with our data model
we give you a concrete type to match
what we say the data model has
well okay that may well be true but we
would still need to
it doesn't matter whether you call the
new thing unit or you call the new thing
null like it it doesn't matter because
if you call it unit then you have to do
all this other work to make unit a thing
we don't need to do that with null
because we have it already
i'm i'm pretty sure that like the dsl
parser and all the rest of this stuff
does not support this correctly
yet
there's also some other weird stuff
where
even if it did and i don't think that it
does um
like i don't think the kind of unions
will support any of these behaviors
correctly right now
there's some just like generally
unfinished bits around this
i don't know maybe it'll need some more
review but i'm pretty sure there's a
thing to deal with here
because like right now i definitely
could not get
any of my cogent stuff at least to parse
a null into any other kind of type
definition and
just like you said before i could say
well that's a go thing
this is this comes down to it like a
language thing
i don't know like if you right now if
you want to
have a schema that strictly matches a
map that has string values
or string keys and the value must be
null
how do you write an ipld schema
that says that
well we work on making that null type
concrete
that's a thing that you can refer to
just
um i mean i think i understand your
problem but it's i still think it's more
of a
it's more in the realm of your
constraints around your
types your memory types not so much the
schema itself because you
could just fix that you could
instantiate a comp
i think just fix that is the
i think we've got some work to do around
that
i don't know maybe maybe you implemented
a bunch more of that stuff in javascript
things
already than i ever did so we have
different views like this
yeah i'm looking at the stuff for
i just don't have any special handling
for this null phenom thing
right it's just it's just it just is
but but that does come from
i i think it does come from the fact
that null is a
first class and heavily used thing in
javascript
like null is a thing undefined is the
without the thing so
it is a concrete thing and so we um
so it sort of falls out naturally in the
language
when it can become a default case
um without too much effort and so
maybe it's not appearing in what i'm
looking at here because
it is implicitly used as something that
just falls out
it's not explaining it very well but
there is a distinction here that
between the languages that does make a
big difference
yeah i don't know i think
i'm not saying no i'm just saying
can you do you think that one should be
able to say right now in the schema dsl
type capital n null
space lowercase n null like is that i'm
going to be processed as a kind keyword
on the end there and
do something
cause maybe it is i assume that that's
not actually allowed
yeah it wouldn't be allowed in the past
as they are now
[Music]
but
but is that a problem how much of a
problem really is that it means it's
hemoscheme it doesn't parse
so if nothing else i think we've got
some like review of the terrain around
here to do and then
maybe we can figure out what we want to
do for consistency in the future
but there's there's definitely some
weird space that needs to look around
this
yeah so okay that's fine i'm i just want
to make sure that
this is thought through really carefully
before doing it because it's so
non-trivial
um so yeah it's a big pain
yep
okay i guess i closed the meeting again
this time for real perhaps yeah i don't
think we'll get any farther on that
issue
i'm not saying
okay then again goodbye everyone and see
you next week